[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>MORGAN SPURLOCK: We've lived
for so long where we kind of
enjoy abusing our bodies.
[LAUGHS] Why do we want to
suddenly start taking the time
to take care of it?
We drink.
We smoke.
We eat poorly.
We don't exercise.
I think that to suddenly make
that complete 180-degree turn
and say, I'm going
to start eating well
and take care of myself,
it's a whole other life.
>>DAVID WOLFE: The AMA, the
whole medical institutions,
I grew up in that world.
Both my parents, both my mom
and dad are medical doctors.
Nobody knows that
world better than me.
I've been right in the
middle of it my whole life.
That's an outdated,
antiquated model of reality.
It's led us into the
situation we have now.
We have more cancer, more
diabetes, more problems
now than ever before.
We have more pharmaceuticals,
more doctors,
more medical institutions,
hospitals, et cetera
now than ever before.
I believe that the
definition of insanity
is doing the same things
over and over and over
and expecting a
different result.
>>GABRIEL COUSENS: My career
in science and medicine
really started at
Amherst College where
I published my first paper in
biochemistry and biophysics
and then went on to Columbia
Medical School where I was also
doing biochemistry
research and began
to really approach this
whole thing as a scientist.
What I learned at
Columbia Medical School,
which a great medical
school, was symptom focus.
Relieve the symptom with the
pharmacological approach.
And even though I was really
expert in pharmacology,
for my biochemistry
background, I saw, wait,
there's something
not right here.
How do we go to a
deeper level of healing?
And that took me into more
holistic healing before--
this is in the '60s before many
people even heard the term,
including myself--
but I just said,
as a scientist, I
have to see what
works that's going
to heal people permanently.
And that took me into training
people and educating people
and ultimately creating the
Tree of Life Rejuvenation
Center where we can create an
all encompassing environment
that people could really
get a taste of what
it's like to really be healthy.
>>FRED BISCI: Most
of the people come
to see me have health issues.
And how I handle
that, I make people
aware of lifestyle changes.
I focus on lifestyle changes.
I encourage people to understand
that the human body has
god-given remedial capabilities.
It has the ability to heal.
If you create the right
internal environment
by leaving certain things
out of your lifestyle,
your body will rise
to the occasions
and can respond in a way
that some people think
would be exaggeration
or even quackery.
I've seen some miraculous
things happen in a very--
the simplest of changes
in a person's lifestyle.
>>JOEL FUHRMAN: And the body
is a miraculous, self-healing,
self-repairing machine.
And what gets a
person well as you
remove the causes of disease.
And the natural
tendency of the body
is to bring itself back to
normal if given the chance.
>>BRUCE LIPTON:
One of the leading
killers in United States
is cardiovascular disease.
And we now know that 90% or
more of cardiovascular disease
can be avoided by
changing lifestyle.
And cancer, which they've
always said was genetic,
they never found really
any cancer genes.
And the fact, that it takes a
10 to 15 genes, a coordination
of 10 to 15 specific genes,
to kick a cancer off,
the concept that this
is a random probability
is not very likely either.
So that even the American
Cancer Society in the last year
made this announcement.
The first time they made it--
I think it's still a
conservative estimate--
but they say 60%
or more of cancer
is totally avoidable
by changing lifestyle.
>> I can give you a pill to
lower your blood pressure
or raise your blood pressure.
I can give you a pill
to make your heart beat
slower or heart beat
faster, to make you
urinate more or urinate less.
We can go to the
health food store,
and we can get an
herbal product that
can make your heart beat
faster or make your heart beat
slower, to make you
tired, to wake you up
or to put you to sleep.
But the efficacy of the
pharmacologic substance,
whether natural or not, is
proportional to its toxicity.
They don't work because
they fix anything,
they work because
they're actually blocking
or interfere with the
natural body process.
Very often the
symptoms of disease
could be the body trying
to repair, rejuvenate,
and detoxify from
the cause of disease,
from the stresses on the body.
>> One of the leading causes of
our early death is eating food,
any kind of food.
And the reason is this--
is that in the byproducts
of digesting food
are free radicals.
And the free radicals are
like the carbon monoxide
that comes out the exhaust
pipe of a car as a byproduct
of the car running.
As much as the carbon
monoxide can kill us,
the free radicals kill us.
>>JULIAN WHITAKER: I
had the opportunity
to work as a staff physician
for Nathan Pritikin.
Nathan Pritikin,
as you may know,
houses patients and puts
them on a very low-M fat diet
and strict exercise regimen.
And I was working
with him in 1976.
And what was so dramatic
as far as I was concerned,
was at very early in my learning
and practicing and medicine,
when I was working for
Pritikin, I saw people get well.
Traditionally-trained
physicians don't often
see people get well.
They often see them get better.
In some areas, for instance, in
orthopedics, you set the bone.
It heals and the
patient is well.
But when you're
dealing with diseases,
you don't see people get well.
In fact, you go from
one drug to another drug
to a plethora of drugs
to multiple drugs.
And so people really
don't get well
if they're going up this scale
of pharmaceutical intervention
for symptoms of disease.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Both at Pritikin and
also here Whitaker
Wellness, we see people come
off a drug, come off a drug,
come off a drug not because they
have this philosophical rage
against drugs, but simply
because the reason for the drug
has been eliminated.
That would be wellness.
>> So all of a sudden, we're
starting to see that these
diseases that seem to
be manifesting through
the population, where we
attributed them to genetics
and biochemistry, really
turn out to be all connected
to lifestyle and how we
respond to the stimuli of life.
And by reprogramming
that, we are empowered
to change the biology as well.
>>KARYN CALABRESE:
Early on in my life,
I had a standard American
diet, a very typical diet.
I was very sickly.
I was cloudy in my focus.
I had terrible skin, PMS.
I had the worst
constipation on the planet,
and I was miserable.
Over the years, I
gradually evolved
because I do believe that
you don't necessarily
go from A to Z overnight.
And as I evolved and
changed, my health improved,
my vitality improved, and
my lifestyle absolutely
improved 100%.
It wasn't only that I didn't
gain weight or gain wrinkles
that other women in
my age are going to,
that it's the clarity.
It's the focus.
I sleep three and a
half, four hours a night.
I run five to six businesses.
I'm never tired.
I'm never sick.
I like to think I'm
always pleasant and loving
towards people.
It's just a totally
different way.
And I can certainly
say this was not
what I enjoyed my entire life--
coming to this whole change
of how I think, how I feel,
how I eat.
My lifestyle changing
has changed everything
around me and the
people around me, too,
which goes to prove, if you
make yourself number one,
if you make the positive
changes for yourself, which
is the only thing we'll
ever be given control over,
it spreads out to
everything around you.
>> Suffering is the most
powerful agent of change there
is.
That's why we have
suffering on the planet.
Because until
someone is suffering,
they won't change anything.
They won't move.
They won't do anything.
But when pain is present,
they're going to move.
They're going to open
up to different ideas.
They're going to say, hey,
maybe this whole thing
I've been doing is all wrong.
Maybe I need to do that.
I look at suffering
as a good thing.
It's part of the dynamic
of balance in our universe,
the balance of opposites.
>>GARY NULL: Disease cannot
exist where there is balance.
Where there is balance, there
is a sense of a person being
at ease.
When a person releases their
sense of ease by the choices
they make-- they have the soft
drink or coffee or the refined
carbohydrates, or they
refuse to exercise,
or they act out in an
inappropriate manner,
they either don't express or
over express or exaggerate
an expression, what's causing
their angst, they build a rage,
or they repress everything and
go into a sense of despondency
and depression.
All of that, every
second, 24 hours a day,
is causing hormonal
fluctuations.
And the hormone fluctuations
directly leads to a person
having been physiological
changes in their blood
chemistry and in their body.
Every time you get
stressed, cortisol goes up.
When cortisol goes up,
then insulin goes up
and so you have insulin
cortisol and all
these different biological
markers cascading up or down
depending upon whether you're
in a good mood or a bad mood.
>>BRENDAN BRAZIER:
Food creates stress
if it creates a lot of
work for itself to digest,
and, therefore, cortisol,
the stress hormone goes up.
And when cortisol's
high, your body actually
can't get into your
state pays a sleep.
It's called delta.
And when that happens, you're
not regenerating your body
during night.
And you wake up, you
feel tired because you
haven't slept efficiently.
So the first thing
that happens is
people crave coffee
and sugar because that
stimulates the adrenal glands.
It gets you going, but
it's just false energy.
What you really want to try
and do is reduce stress.
And a large part of that can be
done through better nutrition,
through raw foods.
>> Conventional medicine is
based on Newtonian physics,
which is everything is matter
is relevant and everything not
material is not relevant.
And this is totally
incorrect because we
live in a quantum mechanical
universe which everything
is energy, including matter.
And invisible forces actually
give shape to matter.
Quantum mechanics
comes in and reveals
that the mind is more
powerful in shaping matter
than anything else.
It's not just a body like a
vehicle, but there's a driver.
And the driver is
separate from the vehicle.
But how the driver
drives the vehicle
determines how well the
vehicle maintains itself
and whether it stays healthy.
Conventional medicine
treats the body as a vehicle
without a driver.
It's like a programmed machine,
like genetic programming.
So if there's something
wrong, then we say,
oh, the programming is off,
and the chemistry is off,
and we have to fix it.
But they ignore the role
of the mind of the driver
because the mind can
change the genetic activity
and rewrite the genes.
And that's been left
out of the equation.
You put that back in, and we
mix the energy and the matter
back together again and
make a hole out of it.
>> So we're either going to
choose to stay uninformed
and a victim, in which case,
help me, is today Tuesday?
Let me put on my merit badge.
I'm in pain today.
I suffer, hand me a Twinkie.
Or you'll say, enough of this.
This is enough.
I'm ready.
I'm ready for my own life.
Turn it on.
I'm ready to be responsible
for my own life.
I'm ready to examine
the consequence
of each choice I make.
And I'm going to look ahead and
ask myself, everything in life
is an exchange.
Every single thing we do
is an exchange of energy.
So if today when I
wake up, if I exchange
that big, fat-laden
cheeseburger or the bacon
and sausages and the
sugar-coated syrup,
and if I exchange that instead
for a nice, healthy protein
drink with some berries
in it and a good walk
and a nice, positive thought,
an affirmation for the day,
then there's going to
be an outcome that I'm
going to be happy with.
>>MIKE ADAMS: I've
seen amazing results
in people who turn to a raw
foods diet or partial raw foods
diet.
I've seen people overcome
cancer, diabetes, heart
disease, depression.
I've seen people throw out
their antidepressant drugs
after doing raw foods for
just three or four weeks.
It's really that powerful.
I mean, this is the medicine
that your body craves.
This is what balances your body.
In your DNA, you have a
blueprint for healing.
All you have to do
really is activate it.
And to activate it,
you need to wake it up
with those signals
from natural medicines.
All those phytochemicals
from plants, those
go into your body.
They circulate to your
cells, tissues, and organs,
and they activate that healing
potential from the inside out.
And then you're not just
masking symptoms anymore.
You're not just
controlling blood sugar
or managing disease.
Instead, you're doing
something far more powerful.
You're actually healing
from the inside out.
You're actually curing
disease and preventing disease
from ever spreading
in your body again.
That's the power of raw foods.
You don't get that
from cooked foods.
from pharmaceuticals.
You only get that from
nature, living nature.
Live, raw foods gives you
that kind of potential.